I think if I did anything as far as the staff is
concerned, I delegated much more.
Frank was not about to delegate anything. Yeah,
and I don't think that was peculiar to his
experience at A&M. I think he operated the same way
in Texas. I know in Texas he went through sales
managers like a change in socks, and that was
partly because there was always, you know, Yeah,
Don Collins is there. When you arrived, or about
the same, he arrived about the same time. He must
have been ahead of me. They were all there when I
arrived. Yeah, Naylor and Norm and Don. But I
didn't know if you'd actually gotten to see them.
Oh, yes. And Ray Gamaya. Gamaya, yeah, was there.
Yes. They were all there. The only person that I
hired of the... Latin group was first was MaryLynn
Dixon, and the other was Jim Billingsley when
Vermila died. Yeah. I just interviewed
Billingsley. Is that right? He was coming to town.
I was going to go to him, but... In Knoxville, yeah.
But he was coming in and called me just by chance,
said, I'm coming to town. I said, well, you're just
in time. I've been thinking about you. He left very
embittered, crusty. He came there crusty and
embittered. I liked it. He and I got along real
well. I had him do some book designs for me. I was
going to say, what on earth was he doing back there?
I can't imagine. I don't know. He came to see his
neighbors, I think. He didn't even want to go to the
press. I told him he was coming. The lady who took
his place. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah, the one that
worked for Caleb. Not Susan. No, not the other one.
Anyway, Linda? Anyway, she kind of apparently
corralled him and did get him to come up, and I'm
glad they did. He should be there. And visit
around.
And their car had broken down. So you're... Those
were the only two people that I replaced from the
original staff. Okay. And now... One thing that
really struck me interesting is that almost from
the time he arrived, Wardlaw was talking
retirement. Yes, that was part of the theory. That
really startled me, yeah. Oh, no, that was part of
the deal, Henry. He was expecting to retire all the
time. And I cannot remember whether there was
health problems involved. Well, he had
constantly. Oh, he lived stuff. He always had
something wrong. Yeah. something natural or
something he invoked by going to Mexico or
wherever it was. I remember he came back from one
Mexico trip. Oh yeah, well he got Montezuma's
revenge in a big way on one of those. He traveled
around with August Frugge and Chester Kerr. They
were on a committee for the National Association,
and they went and established outlets. They went
to South America at least twice, once to just
Central America and South America. Once they went
all over South America trying to arrange
distribution because, you know, the tariff
businesses in Brazil and all of it were just
terrible, and they were trying to get some, they
were trying to find a central distributor, and
they ended up working out of Mexico. lasted for a
while. But they also went to Mexico two or three
times. Of course, he liked that. Yeah, yeah. And
they, the other two,
all three of them had big lists of South American
stuff. California, Texas, and Yale. All three had
big, that's how they got on that committee. But
they also were longtime So, Wardlaw,
let's get to Wardlaw's retirement. I guess
there's something in that context that you think
is notable. No, he planned, that was the whole
business of introducing me to all these people.
Now, there was a big to-do about the retirement, as
I recall. there must have been but you know i can't
recall you did a lot you had a lot to do with it and it
seemed to me in terms of the uh preparing for
preparing for you know kind of a well i'll tell you i
don't remember as much anything about that nearly
as what i remember about his his funeral yeah right
now that was big yeah we'll hold that yeah and get to
that i don't i don't recall i remember some dinners
yeah maybe that was all some of the conventional
dinners but i don't um By that time, Jack Williams
was not there. Okay, let's get to that point right
now. Wardlaw retired in 78, I believe. That sounds
about right. And you became director. Yes, I think
that was from 78 to 88. And Jack was still in hand. He
had become chancellor. He had become chancellor,
yes. Now, was the press under the chancellor or the
president? I'm trying to remember myself now. I
believe that Williams took the press with him. I
think he did, too. did take the press with him okay
so so you're reporting to jack williams yes as a
director yes and and there is a good accord good
relationship with jack williams absolutely it
was it was indispensable at that point and now
that's 78. i guess the first step is within six
months of your becoming director the press
building burned yes In connection with this
business of the reporting, when Vandiver came in,
I think that's when I was supposed to report to the
President rather than the Chancellor again. Oh,
okay. I think that was it. It may have—was there a
teacher? There wasn't a professor for Vandiver,
it was Miller, but who was it? Frank Hubert was it?
No, wait. Well, as a matter of fact, Clyde Wells was
an interim for a short time. That's when it
changed, when I started reporting to the
president. I must have reported to Miller. I'll
find out. I don't know exactly how that went, but I
don't recall. Times were very confusing in that
shuffle. That's kind of what I was... Yeah, it was
very confusing. And also very hazardous to the
health of the press, perhaps. Did you sense
anything? any problems there. Well, now, when
this came, when did it come, when did that, the
second infusion of cash from the Regents? That was
during... Warden Law was gone by then. Yeah, that
was, I think in... And we needed $20,000
or something of that sort, and we got it, but nobody
expected us to get it. And Frank was very upset and
worried about the financial he was yes he was and i
have some letters from him written to me from rice
as i recall right after the fire yeah and he was very
concerned about the press and then in fact you and
uh warren law responded with letters to wells and
williams or someone else saying no this is we were
not that desperate things are okay we're going to
make that we're going to get through this But Frank
may have been useful in triggering a sense of
alarm. And I wondered about this. If that
conceivably began to catch the region's
attention for a moment, that maybe they'd better
deal with this situation. Because apparently
they were not interested in dealing with it
directly. It just sprang out of the earth, it
seemed to, as far as I was concerned. I don't
remember any advance warning about the damn
thing. yeah i'll go to hubert and see if hubert
would yeah he's he's crucial to this yeah uh but
that's i that's what i felt like a really stormy
difficult time and i hadn't really appreciated it
until i started looking into this frank wrote me a
very depressing letter maybe yes i saw that letter
yeah yeah where i would just have to pull in our i'd
have to pull in my horns and yeah tough it out yeah
yeah people were very depressed and this was a
really tough you know and he communicated that he
wrote that same letter sent copies of it or
something to half the world oh yes yeah and then
several regions responded directly to him he sent
a copy of it to joe and betty moore he sent a copy of it
to pride wells he sent it to a lot of people that's
what they did and That may have. I was really
wondering about that. But the response to that
letter was, no, these things are not that bad at
all, Frank. You don't understand. But, you know,
that could have been a trigger, and I've always
wondered about that. That's another thing about
Frank. He let you know just what you needed to know,
period. Yeah. He never expanded or explained.
It was forward march. So Wardlaw retires. You're
in control. Do you have any special change of
direction or policies? No. One of the things that
you're in charge of the press. Basically, your
charge is to continue to thrust the direction of
the Texas A&M University Press as it has been
established by Frank Wardlaw. In fact, I would
argue that you were not given a lot of options
because of the character of the funding. This is
one of the things that I'm following. That's
correct. That Wardlaw really defined things.
Yeah, the logic of the financial logic determined
the direction. That's right. And he knew it, I
think. Well, and it wasn't a bad direction. No, no.
In fact, I think one of the things that happened
briefly during my time there, was that A&M
preempted the regional publishing material.
I remember, what's the guy that runs the Texas
State Historical? Tuffy, Tuffy Ellis. No, who's
Tuffy Ellis's successor?
I remember Ron Tyler saying to me once that every
time he looked for a manuscript, he found out that
Texas A&M had already been there. And that during
that time, for a while there, Texas A&M got a lot of
the Texas Institute of Letters awards, and that
was sort of a peak moment, which disappeared
almost once as I disappeared. I don't know that
that was, but that was a...
Now, let's briefly look at the fire, because
shortly after you became... That was the first
really big crisis, yes. And that occurred what
day? Do you remember? It's deeply in your mind. Not
today, but the occasion I can remember. We got a
phone call. The phone rang in the very early
morning. It said the building was burning. I don't
know who it was. The Williamses were still in their
apartment, weren't they, at that point, I think.
Yes. And was Buck Shewitt still living in the
building? No. Okay, he had left. I know there was no
mention of him. No, it was the Williams were living
in the apartment at the time. And the students came
in and helped haul stuff out of their apartment,
mainly, but the upstairs was gone. It started
above the press offices, basically. As I
remember, there was some repair work going on, and
somebody left an electric light Oh, okay. A big
light, I don't know, 200, 300 watts or something.
They put material over it, and it caught on fire and
blew it. And the reason they got out as much stuff as
was gotten out was that it burned down from the top.
It didn't come up from the bottom. And they got to it
in time. One of the things that was very lucky was
that very little of the important records were
lost. We got out almost, the loss of any records,
any files was, you know. The roof literally fell on
your desk and file cabinets, and that helped.
Yeah, that collapsed, that's right, yeah,
especially in that big room, in the big meeting
room, and I think in my office, and all over. So when
you arrived, it's burning. Yes, and I encountered
President Miller, who was also there. And he was
upset.
OK. And after the fire, the press is going to resume
its duties in the garage, basically, which is the
storeroom. Well, it was also a portable. There was
a portable trailer that was moved in. to the site at
the press building? I didn't remember the trailer
there. I remember the trailers y'all moved into
later, but at first you started off in the garage.
Well, not very long. Those buildings, those
portable buildings were in there behind where the
original... There were two of those. There were
two. They were joined together. You must have been
in those. Oh, yeah, I was in those. And across the
street, there was a garage, and this is where...
There was a, we had a lot of books that we brought in
instead of having to go out to the place on the
highway. It's
where the nautical archaeology was, the annex.
Riverside campus, they call it now. Oh, okay.
That's where the major storage area was, but we
also had this... place right across the street
where they could do packing. Now,
after the fire, what was the initial
administrative reaction or involvement or
situation?
I do remember, and I think I mentioned this to you
yesterday, of having a visitation from one of the
regents and one of the officers of the
administration. I don't recall who it was. I don't
believe it. It was not the president. But they came
and told me that the likelihood of a new building
was very slight. This was typical for university
presses. University presses have rarely gotten a
new building. Most university presses have made
do with basement offices, abandoned academic
offices or buildings that have been originally
intended for something else entirely. How did the
thrust in for new buildings begin? As far as I know,
It was Frank. It was Hubert's. He's the one that
thrust it. It just seemed to have, it appeared
almost out of the blue, as far as I was concerned. I
had almost no advance notice.
I interviewed Hubert for something, oh, I guess it
was this pictorial thing, and he told me how that
had, how he became, they had just asked him to come
up, and he said, I thought I was going up to advise
him on, what to do and they said they asked him to be
the acting whatever it was president he said that
was a surprise to me you know he's brilliant
understates everything but apparently he really
was surprised he had no information at all they
were even thinking and i guess he was just well
known well respected he was a good stable ballroom
person well he certainly was good to to the press
So, okay, I'm going to get to him on the building and
the funding. And the building, yeah, and the other
thing about the building that I remember was that
they put it out for bids, and I don't recall who got
the bid, but they constructed the, or they laid out
the design for the building, and the regent said
that was not satisfactory. And you look at that
building now, and it's, It was originally
designed for all of the offices' spaces to be on the
perimeter with a patio in the middle. And one of the
regents, and I don't remember which one, refused
to waste that much space in a building on space that
could not be used for anything, just for looks. And
so at the last minute, they dumped the original
design and they took
one of the employees of the buildings and grounds
his first name was bob and i don't remember what his
last name is but he essentially redesigned the
building and that's what is the result now that
bullpen that exists in the middle now we're all
where the the building shipping and building
people all sit that was that was supposed to be the
patio patio was open to the sky And there was going
to be more offices back toward the warehouse
structure. I don't remember exactly how it all
looked, but it was going to be a whole thing.
And the library was another area that Bob just
completely did over on the spur of the moment. It
isn't a bad-looking building now, but it could
have been spectacular. It was unique at the time. I
mean, it got a lot of attention among other
university presses because there were very few,
like I say, that had their own building. The
dedication was in 1983. When was that finished? Do
you remember by any chance? The fire is in,
whatever it was, December, oh, I can't remember,
February of,
February of 79? 79. No, no, that's wrong. I believe
that's right, I don't know. Yeah, I don't remember
how long we were in those graves. The dedication
was 83. 83, yeah. Well, we were in the building. You
were there. We were in the building when the
dedication, before the dedication. Yeah, I think
you were there, but I don't remember. I want to
check that. Yeah. But you were in those trailers
then for about two years. We must have been in the
trailers for a couple of years. I'll check those.
I've got all of them. Then on the, I don't know if it
was even worth pursuing, there was a big move to,
and I know how I knew him, to name the building for
Frank Wardlaw. And I've got all the literature on
there. And then letters were being circulated.
John Lindsay wrote a letter in favor of naming the
building for Frank Wardlaw. You know that? No. I
never saw any of that. Yeah. And then there was a
letter from someone to Clyde Wells. Clyde Wells
said, I'm sorry, we have already made that
decision. It's not going to be named for Frank
Wardlaw. There was a letter somewhere, or at least
there was pressure applied by Ford Albridge who
lobbied very hard for John Lindsay. Yeah, and I
don't know if it's really out of the blue, you know,
you don't know how much Lindsay knew, but there is
a, anyway, it was very clear the regents had
already decided. And all that was going on outside
of their whatever, and then, you know, it's a done
deal. Yes, I don't know, but I know that Auburn was
very, very, active in wanting names or anything.
And these were, you know, former, this is kind of a
former student trust. What was your
relationship, incidentally, to the former
students as director?
Only... How about Buck Weir, specifically? He was
very helpful, yes. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. He was, as
long as he was there, well, even after It was always
very cordial, but there was no, I don't recall that
there was any...
How about Jerry Cooper with the Texas Aggie
magazine? Yes, we always had, he was frequently
advertised or ran items about in the press. Is he
still there?
Yeah. You know that book that we did, The Walking
Soul? Yes. I kept trying to get Yama to sell a
pedalette in a football game, and she said, we
can't do that because they want the, you know,
whoever runs the football game, they want those
out competing with their program. That was
amazing.
So you've got the building drive development
program going on from 79 to 83, roughly. You've got
the naming thing going on. Now, what about
publishing? What books? What's happening in the
world of publishing?
I'm trying to think of the titles that appeared to
me. I should have brought that list. I didn't. I had
to. That's okay. But I just thought maybe there's
some titles or events or things that you
particularly... The books that I do remember...
Yeah, tell me about the books you remember,
because that's what I wanted to do, is just spot
some things. When did the... I'll go up and look at
the... I still have the book. The Cowboy Life on the
Texas Plains, Marge Rector's book with John...
Just tell me about things that you remember. that
were particularly interesting and significant.
Well, another thing that I remember, and I think it
was during the same time as this, H.W. Kaler, the
Big Springs Museum book that did Kaler's
paintings. We went, they provided the funds for
that. Is that the blue? That's okay. No, I get it.
That's okay. I get it. It's not big deal. Okay. the
variety, the directors. I remember we went, I can
remember especially going to Rice University,
which no longer has a press, I understand, but at
the time, that's the first time I'd ever been on the
Rice campus, and we went to see all the
administrators, and they, I got to wind and dine in
their faculty club, and they, came aboard, and the
first editor. Was Frank there then? Wardlow? No,
no, Vandiver. I think Vandiver. I'll check my
dates too, but I think he may still be a prologist,
wasn't he? May have been, yes. He could have put the
lean on them. I'll go talk to Frank. I saw him the
other day and just chatted, but I didn't really...
My impression on that, Henry, is that he had little
or nothing to do with it. There was Bill... Who was
the lieutenant governor? Barnes. No, no. There
was a lieutenant governor that had, for a long
time, lieutenant governor. He never ran for
governor. Bill... Wasn't Bill Barnes? No, no, no,
no. Anyway, his life was very busy with the press.
And he had influence. I think he was already some
kind of a factotum at Rice. And she had a lot to do, or
I had the impression that she had a lot to do with
agreeing to become a part of the distribution. And
we also approached the University of Texas.
There was no response. Basically, what happened
is This is your plan. You're going to offer them the
opportunity to distribute through Texas A&M. And
so you look at all of the presses in Texas and you go
to them, basically, and say, here's what we can do
for you. Now, who is going with you in this?
Collins, or Shira, or Noel, or anybody, or just
yourself? I think, for the most part, it was just
me. And Gayle went to some of these. Maybe Collins
went on some of these. Collins certainly got into
it as soon as they started doing something
serious. And I met all of them. The guy at El Paso,
Texas Tech, SMU, TCU,
Waco, Baylor. We fiddled around with Baylor. I
don't remember what that came to, but... Because I
really think that's a big, that's a really
significant... It worked out very well. To me it
made sense to have the cooperation. I don't know
why Texas couldn't have. Because it's a central,
and especially now with this all computerized,
the more computerized it gets, who gives a hoot
Where it's being mailed from. Yeah, and all
together, if you save, you do make. Even giving A&M
a percent, you save. Oh, you bet. Oh, there's no,
yeah. So that was really significant. I wanted to
try to flag that. Well, that, yeah, you know, I
never really, in thinking about it in retrospect,
it is an important thing, but I never... We were
just doing it. It seemed like we had a big empty
warehouse, and this was a way to fill it up and also
get some return for it. And I'll go through and I'll
pick up all that we've signed on. Yeah, yeah. Any
other recall about that process? I can't think,
the one that I remember seeing, I was seeing Dick,
or Gregory, not Dick Gregory, but Keith, and the
people at Tech fairly often anyway. And it was
just, sometimes it was social matter almost.
Which sure makes a lot of sense. Okay, so this is the
advisory council, which was one of the things that
Frank set up just before he left. Yes, and I
probably did not utilize that as much as I should
have, principally because I was not well
acquainted with very many of them, and I felt
reticent, and that was one of the mistakes that I
made would be discussed, that we mentioned
yesterday, about Moshe. If I had known him better,
I would have not hesitated to barge in and talk to
him. And I regret that. Thinking back, that's one
of my biggest regrets. Was there a scheduled
annual meeting? A regular, yes, it was regularly
scheduled. And that's John as one of the longtime
members and participants in that. Now, was
Haskell involved in any of that? Yeah, I think he
was. Wasn't Haskell also chairman of the
editorial committee? Yes, he was chairman of the
advisory committee, yeah. Right. For a long time,
until he left, I guess. Yeah, I think that's right.
Then Clint became. Yes. and they came in as the dean
of faculties yeah you know that was their for their
slot uh yeah and this was peculiar to a m because
most uh editorial committees like the one that
well let's say it this way the editorial
committees that i was familiar with before the lsu
and account these people there were all the
members of the committee were selected or elected
appointed usually by the faculty senate And they
elected their own chairman. It wasn't a permanent
slot. And this had two things. It was good one way
and bad the other. If you got a sympathetic person,
it was good. If you got an unsympathetic person, it
was not so good. Well, my inclination is that the
press was very fortunate not to have gotten you in
the faculty senate.